Masking st (#4261)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/mac.md

---
id: mac
title: Mac Source Template
sidebar_label: Mac
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic Mac source template for OpenTelemetry.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/hosts-operating-systems/mac-apple-icon.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="30"/>

> Mac source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent you can ensure collection of mac logs and host metrics of mac to Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mac source template generates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be sent to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and deploying the configuration to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent, you can ensure the collection of Mac logs and host metrics to Sumo Logic.
```

		
## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for Mac

If not already present, the following [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) are created as part of source template creation.

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **mac**.

> - **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the mac system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the Mac system resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
```

- **`host.group`**. This is a collector level field and is user configured (at the time of collector installation). This identifies the mac host group.
- **`host.name`**. This is tagged through the resourcedetection processor. It holds the value of the host name where the OTel collector is installed.
		
## Prerequisites
		
### For logs collection
Log collection is pre-populated with default paths for common mac system log files.Please modify the list of files as required or leave the default values.

### For metrics collection
Host metrics for CPU and disk are not supported by otel as of now.

## Source template configuration
		

> You can follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.
```

		
### Step 1: Set up remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector
		
import CollectorInstallation from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/collector-installation.md';
		
<CollectorInstallation/>
		
### Step 2: Configure the source template
		

> In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Mac Collection. Below are the inputs required for configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Mac Collection. Below are the inputs required for configuration:
```

		
- **Name**. Name of the source template.
- **Description**. Description for the source template.

#### Logs Collection

> - **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default sumo tags _sourceCategory with the value otel/mac

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default, sumo tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/mac.
```

- **Logs**. The following fields are pre-populated with default paths for common log files that are used in different Mac distributions. Not all paths might be relevant for your operating system. Modify the list of files as required or leave the default values.

#### Metrics Collection
- **Metrics**. Select the metric scrappers you want to enable. By default metric collection for memory,load,file system,network and paging are enabled and process metric collection is disabled.

##### Enable process metric collection (Optional)

import ProcMetrics from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/process-metric-collection.md';

<ProcMetrics/>
		

> - **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
> 
> **Processing Rules** -  You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
- **Processing Rules**.  You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).
```
